The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Object Storage service is a high-performance and scalable storage platform, offering reliable and cost-effective data resilience. The Object Storage service can store an unlimited amount of unstructured data of any type of content, including analytics data and content (such as images and videos). We can store or retrieve data directly from the internet or from within the cloud platform. Object Storage offers several interfaces that allow you to easily manage large-scale storage. The elasticity of the platform allows you to scale to use a small (minimum) capacity to the maximum, without experiencing a decrease in performance or service reliability. Object Storage is a regional service and is not tied to a specific compute instance. We can access data from anywhere within or outside the context of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, as long as we have internet connectivity and can access one of the Object Storage end points (for authorization and resource limits will be discussed in another jobsheet/meeting). Oracle Cloud Infrastructure supports multiple storage tiers offering cost and performance flexibility. The standard tier is the default storage for Object Storage buckets. Object Storage supports private access of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure resources in the VCN through the service gateway. A service gateway allows connectivity to public Object Storage end points from private IP addresses on private subnets. For example, let's say we want to backup our database system to an Object Storage bucket over the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure backbone instead of over the internet. We can optionally use IAM Policies to control which VCNs or IP address ranges can access Object Storage. Object Storage is always free eligible, for detailed information on which resources are free eligible,
