Object Storage
The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Object Storage service is a high-performance and scalable storage platform, offering reliable and cost-effective data resilience. The Object Storage service can store an unlimited amount of unstructured data of any type of content, including analytics data and content (such as images and videos).
We can store or retrieve data directly from the internet or from within the cloud platform. Object Storage offers several interfaces that allow you to easily manage large-scale storage. The elasticity of the platform allows you to scale to use a small (minimum) capacity to the maximum, without experiencing a decrease in performance or service reliability.
Object Storage is a regional service and is not tied to a specific compute instance. We can access data from anywhere within or outside the context of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, as long as we have internet connectivity and can access one of the Object Storage end points (for authorization and resource limits will be discussed in another jobsheet/meeting). Oracle Cloud Infrastructure supports multiple storage tiers offering cost and performance flexibility. The standard tier is the default storage for Object Storage buckets.

Object Storage Resource
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure has various types of Object Storage for managing and storing data, including:

1. Buckets A bucket is a logical container for storing objects. Users or systems create buckets as needed within a region. A bucket is associated with a single compartment (a collection of resources that can only be accessed by a group that has been granted permission by an administrator in the organization) that has policies (Identity and Access Management (IAM) documents are used to determine who has what type of access to our resources) to determine actions what the user can do on the bucket and on all objects in the bucket.
2. Objects All data types, regardless of their content type, are stored as objects. An object consists of the object itself and metadata about that object. Each object is stored in a bucket.
3. Namespace The Object Storage namespace acts as a top-level container for all buckets and objects. At the time of account creation, each Oracle Cloud Infrastructure tenant is assigned a unique Object Storage namespace name that is created by the system and cannot be changed. The namespace includes all the compartments within a region. We can control the bucket name, but the bucket name must be unique in the namespace. Although the namespace is region-specific, the namespace name itself is the same across all regions.
4. Compartment Compartments are the primary building blocks used to organize cloud resources. When renting, a root compartment is created to then create a compartment under the root compartment to manage your resources. We can control access by creating policies that define what actions a user group can take on the resources in that compartment. Object Storage Buckets can only exist in one compartment.

Object Storage Characteristics Object Storage provides the following features:

1. Strong Consistency When there is a read request, Object Storage will make the most recent copy of the data written to the system.
2. Durability Object Storage is a regional service. Data is stored redundantly across multiple storage servers. Object Storage actively monitors data integrity using checksums and automatically detects and repairs corrupted data. Object Storage actively monitors and ensures data redundancy. If redundancy loss is detected, Object Storage automatically creates more copies of the data.
3. Custom Metadata We can define our own extensive metadata as key-value pairs for any purpose. For example, we can create descriptive tags for objects, retrieve those tags, and sort the data. We can assign custom metadata to objects and buckets using the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure CLI or SDK.
4. Security Object Storage ensures the security of data stored using data encryption. Data encryption is a method used to protect the confidentiality of data. The data can be accessed using the decryption key generated when uploading the object to the bucket. It is used in conjunction with an IAM policy that authenticates the user performing the task
